# Output file (data_summary.txt) generated by run_analysis.R

The columns in the output file are listed below:

- subject_id - The id of the user.
- activity_labels - The name of the activity like LAYING or WALKING.

// All other columns are the mean of the particular measurement type after grouping by subject and activity 
// The unit for columns with "Gyro" is radians/second
// The unit for other columns is 'g' (gravity)

- tBodyAcc_mean_X
- tBodyAcc_mean_Y
- tBodyAcc_mean_Z
- tGravityAcc_mean_X
- tGravityAcc_mean_Y
- tGravityAcc_mean_Z
- tBodyAccJerk_mean_X
- tBodyAccJerk_mean_Y
- tBodyAccJerk_mean_Z
- tBodyGyro_mean_X
- tBodyGyro_mean_Y
- tBodyGyro_mean_Z
- tBodyGyroJerk_mean_X
- tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Y
- tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Z
- tBodyAccMag_mean
- tGravityAccMag_mean
- tBodyAccJerkMag_mean
- tBodyGyroMag_mean
- tBodyGyroJerkMag_mean
- fBodyAcc_mean_X
- fBodyAcc_mean_Y
- fBodyAcc_mean_Z
- fBodyAccJerk_mean_X
- fBodyAccJerk_mean_Y
- fBodyAccJerk_mean_Z
- fBodyGyro_mean_X
- fBodyGyro_mean_Y
- fBodyGyro_mean_Z
- fBodyAccMag_mean
- fBodyAccJerkMag_mean
- fBodyGyroMag_mean
- fBodyGyroJerkMag_mean
- tBodyAcc_std_X
- tBodyAcc_std_Y
- tBodyAcc_std_Z
- tGravityAcc_std_X
- tGravityAcc_std_Y
- tGravityAcc_std_Z
- tBodyAccJerk_std_X
- tBodyAccJerk_std_Y
- tBodyAccJerk_std_Z
- tBodyGyro_std_X
- tBodyGyro_std_Y
- tBodyGyro_std_Z
- tBodyGyroJerk_std_X
- tBodyGyroJerk_std_Y
- tBodyGyroJerk_std_Z
- tBodyAccMag_std
- tGravityAccMag_std
- tBodyAccJerkMag_std
- tBodyGyroMag_std
- tBodyGyroJerkMag_std
- fBodyAcc_std_X
- fBodyAcc_std_Y
- fBodyAcc_std_Z
- fBodyAccJerk_std_X
- fBodyAccJerk_std_Y
- fBodyAccJerk_std_Z
- fBodyGyro_std_X
- fBodyGyro_std_Y
- fBodyGyro_std_Z
- fBodyAccMag_std
- fBodyAccJerkMag_std
- fBodyGyroMag_std
- fBodyGyroJerkMag_std

More information

The detailed description of the different measurement types can be found in the features_info.txt file included in the data zip file and is also listed here for convenience.

features_info.txt
===========================================================
Feature Selection 
=================

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

tBodyAcc-XYZ
tGravityAcc-XYZ
tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
tBodyGyro-XYZ
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
tBodyAccMag
tGravityAccMag
tBodyAccJerkMag
tBodyGyroMag
tBodyGyroJerkMag
fBodyAcc-XYZ
fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
fBodyGyro-XYZ
fBodyAccMag
fBodyAccJerkMag
fBodyGyroMag
fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

mean(): Mean value
std(): Standard deviation
mad(): Median absolute deviation 
max(): Largest value in array
min(): Smallest value in array
sma(): Signal magnitude area
energy(): Energy measure. Sum of the squares divided by the number of values. 
iqr(): Interquartile range 
entropy(): Signal entropy
arCoeff(): Autorregresion coefficients with Burg order equal to 4
correlation(): correlation coefficient between two signals
maxInds(): index of the frequency component with largest magnitude
meanFreq(): Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency
skewness(): skewness of the frequency domain signal 
kurtosis(): kurtosis of the frequency domain signal 
bandsEnergy(): Energy of a frequency interval within the 64 bins of the FFT of each window.
angle(): Angle between to vectors.

Additional vectors obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample. These are used on the angle() variable:

gravityMean
tBodyAccMean
tBodyAccJerkMean
tBodyGyroMean
tBodyGyroJerkMean

The complete list of variables of each feature vector is available in 'features.txt'

===========================================================




